[Music]
so it helps you avoid traffic jams and
shows you the way in an unfamiliar city
but is that all GPS is good for turns
out it's used for all kinds of stuff
like feeling earthquakes finding
treasures it can even save you from a
rendezvous with a shark and brownie
points to anyone who can count how many
times I say GPS in this video one it can
feel an earthquake using advanced GPS
receivers scientists can tell how large
and destructive an earthquake will be in
a matter of 10 seconds it's so efficient
and precise that even people far away
from the epicenter can be notified and
have enough time to get ready for a big
quake or evacuate to farmers use it
thanks to GPS receivers farmers can map
their lands or send tractors and other
equipment to certain crops for reading
or harvesting machines can do it in any
weather even when there's heavy fog and
low visibility conditions that would
make it hard for a human still 3 robots
would be lost without GPS robots need
guidance no less than you do when you're
in an unfamiliar place but they need it
even more since they don't have their
own eyes you know GPS helps them
navigate without it
robots used in the industrial
agricultural and mapping spheres
wouldn't be able to do their job
speaking of mapping for it's used for
survey defining boundaries between lands
making maps of sea floors and tracing
changes in the shapes of different
natural structures can be a challenge
GPS is the perfect technology for
creating high accuracy Maps measuring
objects and monitoring changes 5 volcano
observatories make use of
magma shifts the surface it flows on
with time GPS receivers rise or sink
because of those shifts if you monitor
the changes you can see where exactly
magma is flowing
another thing about volcanoes is ash it
distorts the GPS signal and using these
distortions scientists can determine how
much ash there is in volcanic plumes
they're a problem for airplanes so this
monitoring is important to plan a safe
route 6 GPS can help save endangered
species wildlife migration tracking is
very important in the conservation of
endangered species GPS is perfect for
this goal because you can get data about
the animals movements remotely through a
satellite scientists don't need to
physically follow animals and check tags
they already use GPS to track the
migrations of whales sea turtles bald
eagles and elephants to name a few
seven you can use it for treasure
hunting geocaching has become a popular
hobby since the early 2000s there are
digital treasure maps with clues on
where to find caches or trinkets GPS
makes such high-tech treasure hunts
possible as people would never find out
where these hidden gems are without it
eight artworks are safer with it
paintings of famous artists are worth
millions but their cultural and
historical importance is priceless of
course most of them are insured but when
they get stolen it's a disaster for
private owners or museums when you
attach a tracker to an art piece thieves
will think twice before stealing them
even if they do the owners will be able
to locate it easily or for more creative
types 9 you can use GPS to make giant
works of art Baltimore artist Michael
Wallace made his City his canvas he
attached a GPS tracker to his bike
installed mapping software and moves in
intricate patterns creating digital art
you'd be surprised what detailed figures
you can create just by riding a bike
through the streets and local parks
ten GPS analyzes the atmosphere it helps
measure the amount of water vapor in the
atmosphere that can come out as
torrential rains this way scientists can
forecast downpours and flash floods in
the future it can also help us take the
next step in tsunami warnings GPS is
sensitive to changes caused by tsunamis
in the electrically charged upper
atmosphere
11 it measures snow levels two
scientists can learn how much moisture
there is in the soil or how much snow
there is on the surface using the echoes
that bounce off the earth and go to the
GPS receiver this is especially useful
in the Arctic and Antarctic where
weather stations are a luxury and
measuring the snow buildup is crucial
monitoring snowfall is also a must in
some areas where it's a major source of
water 12 it makes weather forecasts more
accurate to draw an accurate forecast
you need both observations of the
atmosphere and from meteorological
stations on the ground there's hardly
enough of the latter in some parts of
the world especially the oceans and the
polar regions GPS helps fill that gap
it's an incredibly powerful yet
relatively low-cost technology 13 it's
great for tracking pets attaching a GPS
microchip to your dog or cat's collar
can save you a ton of nerves in time in
case they chase after something and go
missing you can always find where they
are using the tracker app on your phone
hey maybe install some mapping software
and see what GPS are they managed to
create 14 you can track people too if
you lose your friend in a crowd of the
concert some festival or parade it's too
loud to call and you probably don't feel
like explaining your whereabouts via
text you could track each other using
GPS without saying a word this
technology is also helpful for some
people like the elderly who want to live
independently yet might need help at any
moment you can get a tracker in the form
of a key chain pendant watch you name it
some gadgets also have an SOS button
whenever they need medical
assistance 15 it saves people from
sharks human encounters with sharks are
rare but better safe than sorry right
when organization GPS tagged about 50
sharks living mostly off the east coast
of the US if you're a shark fan you can
even monitor their whereabouts live
online for people who are less
enthusiastic about these guild predators
it's a guarantee you won't meet them at
the beach once they get too close to the
shore the lifeguards aren't formed and
they let everyone else know it's time to
get out of the water
such tagging also helps collect new
information about sharks 16 you can
track your luggage has your luggage ever
been lost while traveling it's happened
to me more times than I'd like the good
news is a GPS tracker can help you
locate your suitcase wherever it is the
same works for your laptop in case you
leave it somewhere or it gets stolen 17
you'll always know where your vehicle is
GPS is used to monitor your vehicles
location in real-time you can see where
it is on your cell phone
PC or tablet if you link the tracking
system to it if it gets stolen you can
even stop the car remotely 18 it works
for fishing and hunting any fan of
fishing has their favorite spots where a
good catch is guaranteed if you don't
want to spend hours looking for that
very place using trees or rocks as
landmarks GPS can help you can just pin
your favorite locations on a digital map
the same goes for hunting 19 it's useful
in mining finding minerals under the
ground in different layers of the earth
is a tricky job accurate GPS helps guide
machines to natural treasures drill
safely avoid collisions survey and
manage entire operations 20 it could be
the key to transport in the future a
driverless cars work with the help of
GPS can you imagine a future where all
cars drive themselves and would you be
willing to take a ride
let me know down in the comments along
with your guess on how many times I said
GPS and if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy yea these just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life